And so just before I get into walking
through what this looks like and
how it exists within the project, I want
to just take a real quick moment and
just talk about how the tests
are structured in kind of those components
before we see it in code.
So in terms of structuring our tests,
there are kind of three main components,
you have your specs, your page objects,
and your HTML templates.
And there's a few other components here,
but these are the main pieces.
So specs, what we expect to happen,
broke down in individual tests.
So this is very much
like an end-to-end test.
Now page objects, this is responsible for
managing the sequencing and
the interaction with
the elements on the page.
And now we have our variation of this,
which so I consider we have
smart page objects which are actually
kind of, you can think of those
as kind of like macros,
where you're managing the sequencing.
But also within a page object,
which I would referred to as maybe
like a static page object is that,
I keep a key value object that helps
locating elements on the page.
And then from here,
we have our HTML templates,
which this exists within
our main application, and
this is what we use to
allow Cypress to then
query our application and
get access to it.
So with that said,
let's hop into the code,
let's walk through this, and
let's see what this looks like.
So normally like connects it together
because of the dependencies, but,
All right, from the command line,
we'll go, nx run.
And thanks for the great input there,
we'll go end-to-end.
And then we're running
the end-to-end test on dashboard.
So this is dash dash watch.
And what this is going to do is,
it's going to compile the application and
it's going to pull up the console.
And once it does this, then we'll be
able to see the specs that we have
in our project, and then we can run
them individually or all at once.
And so in this case,
we just have a single spec.
And this is gonna run over
here in the test runner,
and that was kinda fast.
So let me do this again.
And so if you wanna see it again,
and you can just refresh.
And from here,
you can do some really interesting things.
So, we could time travel, as I mentioned.
And so, we have the test body here and
you can actually
start to walk through
the test that you're going.
So let's go to something
a little more interesting.
Let's go with, we want to update a widget.
So you can see here that,
let me just unpinned this real quick,
that here, if I go to, and
you can actually just mouse over it and
you can see that I'm typing so
as you see as I mouse over this,
I'm adding in these exclamation points.
And then at the bottom,
then they go into here.
So now we can start to time
travel through our test.
So we have three widgets, and
we're able to time travel through this,
and see the test running.
Now another thing that we
can do besides time travel,
which I think is pretty awesome,
is that if you want to get
access to a particular element
in your end-to-end test,
what you can do is you can select
this little kinda target here,
and go through, and
click on your elements.
So this is really,
really helpful to click this, and
it'll give you a selector that you can
then copy and pull into your test.
And so a lot of times what I do,
is that I'll instrument my templates
with very specific IDs like test ID.
So it's easy for me to just go,
and look that up, and pull it out.
But there are times where I need
to pull maybe a sub element out.
And from here,
I can just basically select this item, or
I can use this target here and
I could say, like I take this and
it gives me the selector to do that.
And so this is also really,
really helpful because one of the ways for
your end-to-end test to become very,
very brittle is when you
are using like the CSS, like I would
say CSS selectors, specifically,
that you're trying to find this element
on the page that may or may not exist and
you're having to do these complex
queries in to your templates.
And so by using,
you'll see here I have this data site, and
we'll talk about this in a moment.
But by using very specific
test IDs in your template,
it makes it very easy to locate.
But occasionally, you may want to look
something up or like a subset of that,
and you can use this tool here
to just go and click on it.
So in this case,
I only have one image on the page.
And if I didn't want to add an ID,
then I could just say, cy.get.image.
So not only is it giving you the selector,
but
it's giving you the command to
get that element off the page.
So I wanna let that sink in for a second,
the test runner is helping you
write your test in the fact that
it's servicing all the stuff that
you could and would want to see.
And so I need to get access to,
for instance, let's go with,
I'll close this back down,
this particular button here.
So I can click on here, and
if I needed to do some down and
dirty, I could just grab
this particular selector.
And so I think that's really,
really important is that,
not only can you see your
test being run in real time,
that you can also set it
up that if a test fails,
you can capture that video or
you can capture that image.
So now you're running a test, it fails.
And now you can capture that output and
store it, and
then service this back to someone on
your team to say like, what happened?
Well, we have an image for it like
it failed and you can check it out.
And so that's another really,
really, really cool thing is,
where did it go wrong?
Well, you can very easily set
it to capture an image or
a video of that particular test.
And the fact that you can just
basically walk through this,
it's very easy to replicate that.
And so these are just a couple
of things that I really,
really, really like about
Cypress in the test runner.
Now, let me hop into the project itself,
and
I want to just point
out a couple elements.
Well, let me actually show you
one more thing real quick.
And I'm going to stop this, and
we're just going to do this one more time.
And you're going to see something in
this code that is really worth pointing
out when you are building
automated end-to-end test.
You'll notice here that there is
this route segments in the test.
So I'm saying route, get widgets,
and this is stubbed.
You'll notice here that in my widgets,
it's Cypress widget 00, 01, etc.
So that's the other thing I
want to point out is that,
we're loading the application but
I'm actually pulling in stubbed data.
So this is another super amazing thing
is that, we're setting up these routes,
the stubbed routes, and
then before the test runs,
we're able to essentially get and
hit those routes and do stuff.
So this is why you're seeing
Cypress data in the application.
And so I'll show you where
that's coming from as well.
And also notice this is
running the application,
like I can actually click on here and
interact with this.
So it's pulling the application up,
running it.
We can select it, we can drill into it,
we can time travel, and
then we can also mock out the request for
that data.
So you wanna be really, I would say that
when you're running end-to-end test,
there is a time and
a place for using real APIs,
especially like in a large
scale integration test.
There are times to use a real API
to make sure that everything works.
In most cases, a major barrier to
entry to running end-to-end test is
that you're using real APIs and
all sudden now, you've got all this
test data in your database or
you're manipulating sensitive data.
Well, the way around that is
to mock out your APIs, so
that I can run this a 1000 times a day and
not affect any data inside of a database.
And then at some point I would say,
like run this every time you check your
code in or anytime you're about to
release, but then at some point that you
do flip to a real API and
you let it run against the real API.
But, more often than not,
I would say probably,
if you do this a 100 times,
I would say maybe just a handful of times,
would you actually run
this against a real API?
Because if you're just doing this locally,
like you don't want to have to worry
about, I'm running this locally, and
I have to worry about the data, and
the time that it takes to
make these real API request.
So, with that said,
I'm going to close this down.
Now, real quick, you will notice as well,
I'm running Chrome,
but you can add in additional
browsers into your console, and
you can run it against that as well.
So I'm gonna just close this down, and
I wanna hop in the code, and I wanna just
walk through the pieces that are in
this branch that make this possible.